\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename testnh.info
@settitle TestNH Manual 1.2.0
@documentencoding UTF-8
@afourpaper
@dircategory Science Biology Genetics
@direntry
* traitrelax: (traitrelax)              TraitRELAX.
@end direntry
@c %**end of header


@copying
This is the manual of the TraitRELAX program, version 1.0.0.

Copyright @copyright{} 2020 Keren Halabi, Eli Levy Karin, Laurent Guéguen, and Itay Mayrose
@end copying

@titlepage
@title TraitRELAX Manual
@author Keren Halabi
@author @email{halabikeren@mail.tau.ac.il}

@c The following two commands start the copyright page.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1fill1
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top The TraitRELAX Manual

@insertcopying

@menu
* Introduction::
* traitrelax::

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Introduction

* Description::
* Run::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Introduction, traitrelax, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

TraitRELAX is a program for detection of association of changes in 
phenotype traits with changes in selection intensity at the codon 
level across a phylogeny. It is written on the Bio++ libraries, 
and uses the command line syntax common to the Bio++ Program Suite 
(BppSuite). Part of this manual will therefore link to the 
corresponding manual of BppSuite where needed, and only describe 
options specific to the TraitRELAX program.

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

@menu
* Description::
* Run::
@end menu

@node Description, Run, Introduction, Introduction
@section Description of the programs

The TraitRELAX program performs a likelihood ratio test
for association of changes in phenotype traits with 
changes in selection intensity at the codon level across 
a phylogeny. It takes as input a single parameter file which
consists of full paths to the following input files: 
AIC, AICc, BIC or LRT.

@item character trait data
Matching of trait states 0 and 1 to the examined taxa (input.character.file).

@item coding sequence alignment
Codon alignment with the examined taxa (input.sequence.file).

@item tree
tree of the examined taxa (input.tree.file).

@end table

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node Run,  , Description, Introduction
@section How to run the programs

The TraitRELAX program follows the @samp{bppSuite} syntax.
As such, it is command line driven, and take as input options 
with the form @samp{name}=@samp{value}. These options can be 
gathered into a file, and loaded using @command{param=optionfile}. 
Please refer to the @uref{http:bioweb.me/bppsuite, Bio++ Program 
Suite manual, Bio++ Program Suite manual} for more details, 
including the use of variables, priority of option values, etc.
A template parameter file can be found in the main directory 
under the name TraitRELAX_template.bpp.

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

@node traitrelax, Introduction, Top
@chapter Testing trait-sequence asosciation with TraitRELAX

TraitRELAX reads a codon alignment file using the same syntax as all 
bppSuite programs (@ref{Sequences, , , bppsuite, in
@uref{http:bioweb.me/bppsuite, Bio++ Program Suite manual, Bio++
Program Suite manual}}). All formats are supported, as well as
sequence filtering options. It performs a likelihood ratio test
for the null hypothesis of no trait-sequence asosication and the
alternative hypothesis of trait-sequnce association.
TraitRELAX will then report the result of the test (significant or not).

@c ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

@c end of document

@c @node Index,  , Reference, Top
@c @unnumbered Index
@c
@c @printindex cp

@bye
